---
title: Family Tour of Rajasthan
subtitle: Delhi, Udaipur, Deogarh, Jaipur, Sawai Madhopur, Karauli, Agra
description: Rajasthan is full of great monuments, but often for families, the highlights are the little offbeat places in between the major cities, and getting to experience something different everywhere. This tour takes you on a tiger safari in Ranthambhore, to a maze-like castle in Deogarh, to a lovely palace with horses, ducks and vintage cars in Karauli, and to the highlights of Udaipur, Jaipur and the Taj Mahal. With a comfortable pace and fun activities, this is a great way to show the kids a bit of India without tears and sulks!
highlights: [
A great balance of leisure time and fun activities,
Playing at being a knight in Deogarh's huge castle
Looking for tigers and leopards in Ranthambhore national park,
Exploring Udaipur on foot and Jaipur by cycle,
Running wild in the safe, friendly grounds of Karauli's palace]
weight: 109
translationKey: family-tour-of-rajasthan
days: 15
---	


Day 1, Delhi
Today, you start your tour on arrival in Delhi, where you will be met by our representative and transferred to your airport hotel, convenient for flying straight to Udaipur the next day.

Suggested hotel: HOLIDAY INN (AEROCITY)
For a comfortable stay before or after a long flight, the Holiday Inn at Aerocity, close to Delhi's International Airport, is ideal. The rooms are large, modern, and, most important of all, quiet. There is a swimming pool, a large restaurant with abundant buffets, a bar, and a speciality Italian restaurant.


 
Day 2, Udaipur
A two-hour flight takes you to lovely Udaipur. Set around the vast Pichola Lake and dominated by dramatic palaces, Udaipur is surely Rajasthan's most picturesque city. High whitewashed houses and narrow, winding alleys lend it an almost medieval charm. The huge City Palace, still the residence of the Maharana, is carved out of yellow sandstone and stands on the banks of Lake Pichola, from where you have fabulous views over the lake and the famous Lake Palace Hotel.
	
Suggested hotel: MAHENDRA PRAKASH
Mahendra Prakash is a haveli-style hotel in a quiet location on a shaded avenue near the Rose Garden, with the main city sights still in close proximity. It is a wonderful oasis in the busy city of Udaipur. The rooms are tastefully furnished in traditional style. After a long day of sightseeing, you can relax by the pool in the garden with a few tortoises for company. There is a good restaurant by the pool too.	



Day 3, Udaipur

MORNING CITY TOUR OF UDAIPUR, FOLLOWED BY A BOAT TRIP ON LAKE PICHOLA (BY SHARED BOAT)
The highlight of this guided city tour is a visit to the City Palace, now largely preserved as a museum with a large and varied collection of mosaics, glass and porcelain figures, miniatures and paintings. There are superb views over Lake Pichola and the Lake Palace Hotel. Nearby is the 17th-century Jagdish temple, famous for its superb and distinctive architecture and a centre of constant activity. 

The city tour is followed by a relaxing, hour-long (shared) motor boat ride on the lake, with views of the activity on the "ghats" used by local people for washing and bathing, the City Palace complex, and the Aravalli Hills to the west. You also pass the famous luxury Lake Palace hotel, and stop to visit the serene "pleasure island" of Jag Mandir.


The afternoon is at leisure to just relax or explore the city on your own.



Day 4, Deogarh
A comfortable three-hour drive takes you to Deogarh, a pleasant, little-frequented town north of Udaipur, dominated by the huge Deogarh Mahal palace. The road to the palace winds its way up the top of the hill, through a market dotted with shops selling silver jewellery, clothes, fabrics, food stuffs and just about everything one needs in a Rajasthani household. 

The rest of the day is free for you to explore the palace.

Suggested hotel: DEOGARH MAHAL
If you've ever wanted to play at soldiers defending a castle, this is the place to do it. One of Rajasthan's most spectacular palaces, Deogarh Mahal is a fabulous building of yellow ochre with ornate domes and white accents. The rooms are spread across the palace on different, maze-like levels. Many rooms have original furniture and some have exquisite frescoes and murals with mirrors. Beautiful handpicked fabrics enhance a feeling of quiet elegance. There is a well-designed swimming pool in its own secluded area.



Day 5, Deogarh

MORNING TRAIN EXCURSION WITH JEEP TRANSFERS 
This little passenger train, built in the 1930s, goes at a gentle pace through the most beautiful forest and hills in Rajasthan, a rugged, cinematic landscape. On board, you get to interact with locals who are excited to sit next to a foreigner; the bonus is monkeys and peacocks on the way. The ride ends at Phulad and then you drive back to Deogarh along a very scenic route.

The rest of the day is free to relax and enjoy the castle and explore the village.



Day 6, Jaipur
After breakfast, drive to Jaipur (275kms, 05:00hrs). Stay in Alsisar Haveli. 
A fairly long but not unpleasant drive (five hours) gets you to Jaipur, one of the most interesting cities in India, with exuberant 18th- and 19th-century palaces and exotic street life. Just outside town is the impressive Amber Fort. It is worthwhile spending time wandering through the bazaars. Jaipur is well 
known for its beautiful carpets, enameled ornaments, precious and semi-precious stones, brass ornaments and many other arts and crafts.

Suggested hotel: ALSISAR HAVELI
Just off a busy street near the old walled city, Alsisar Haveli offers peace and serenity once you step through the arched gateway. Most of the aristocratic families, loyal to the royal house of Jaipur, maintained lavish town-houses in Jaipur. Alsisar Haveli is one such property. The current head of the family has sympathetically restored the old haveli, which now has a lovely swimming pool in a large, peaceful garden.


Day 7, Jaipur

EARLY MORNING CYCLE TOUR OF JAIPUR
In the early morning, you join a small group for a unique journey by bicycle into the streets of the old city. You will experience the true Jaipur as you cycle through the narrow alleys to get a peek into homes, kitchens and workshops. You learn about the lives of the locals and the history of the city, and visit the colourful and bustling vegetable and flower markets. You will also enjoy a traditional Rajasthani breakfast in a local house.

MORNING GUIDED EXCURSION TO AMBER FORT
We wouldn't normally recommend too much sightseeing with kids, but Amber Fort is special. You will meet your guide directly after the cycling tour, who will accompany you to the fort, just to the north of Jaipur. There is a short, steep walk up to the entrance courtyard, which leads to a magnificent complex of palaces, halls, pavilions, gardens and temples built over 125 years. There are excellent views down over the old town of Amer, and up to the Jaigarh and Nahargarh Forts higher in the hills.


The rest of your day is at leisure to explore Jaipur's lovely markets on your own.



Day 8, Sawai Madhopur
The busy, dusty town of Sawai Madhopur does not seem at first like fair reward for your four-hour drive from Jaipur, but it is the base for visiting beautiful Ranthambhore National Park. The landscape in Ranthambhore is more open than in many other parks, making tiger sightings more frequent. Other wildlife includes sambhar, nilgai, sloth bear, jackal, crocodile, lots of bird life, and even some leopards.
 
AFTERNOON VISIT OF RANTHAMBHORE FORT
This is a 1,000-year-old fort at the periphery of the National Park, with a spectacular combination of Rajput and Mughal architecture. From the parking area at the base of the fort, a climb of 400 steps winds through various gates to a plateau dotted with ruined palaces, tombs, and a popular Ganesh temple. There are fabulous views over the park, and this is also a great place for bird-watching.

Suggested hotel: TIGER DEN RESORT
A comfortable, friendly resort situated only five minutes away from the park entrance gates, ideal for quick access to game drives. This resort is a mix of cottages set in landscaped gardens, or duplex blocks overlooking the swimming pool. The extensive gardens and the terrace overlooking them are a comfortable place to sit and discuss wildlife sightings. The restaurant serves extensive buffet meals.



Day 9, Sawai Madhopur

MORNING AND AFTERNOON JEEP SAFARIS IN RANTHAMBORE N.P.
Ranthambore National Park is one of the best places in India in which to see a tiger in the wild. The varied landscapes within the park are attractive and the wildlife safari by shared jeep is an enjoyable experience even if wildlife proves elusive. 

Morning safaris usually start at around 06:00, and afternoon safaris at around 14:00, and usually last for 3 to 4 hours.




Day 10, Karauli
You continue by road to Karauli, midway between Bharatpur and Ranthambore, and home to a magnificent palace. Built in 1635, the old City Palace is a treasure trove of architecture, stone carvings, gorgeous jali work and classic paintings. Karauli has an interesting bazaar full of exclusive handicrafts, stone carvings and colourful bangles. 

Suggested hotel: BHANWAR VILAS PALACE
Just outside Karauli is Bhanwar Vilas Palace, the residence of the Maharaja, and a now a beautiful heritage hotel. Staying here feels like stepping back in time: the impressive early-20th-century building has wide, cool verandahs, authentic period furniture and great ambience, with elaborately-furnished rooms. His Highness, Krishna Chandra Pal, often joins guests at dinner when he is in residence. This is a great place for kids: the extensive hotel grounds boast an old-fashioned swimming pool, horses to ride, vintage cars, ducks, geese, and an organic garden. 

	

Day 11, Karauli

MORNING CAMEL CART RIDE TO OLD CITY PALACE
It is great fun to ride a camel cart through Karauli's narrow market streets to the Old City Palace. The richly-ornamented 18th-century palace has beautiful sandstone cupolas, elaborate stucco-work, spectacular frescoes and an impressive Durbar Hall. The Krishna temple has a regular, lively prayer ceremony that attracts devotees from surrounding villages. You can also explore the colourful market streets on foot.

The rest of the day is at leisure to relax.


Day 12, Agra
Today, you drive to Agra with some very interesting optional stops along the way, at Bharatpur bird sanctuary and the grand folly of Fatehpur Sikri. Depending on the stops you make, the drive takes from three and a half to six hours.
 
AGRA
Agra is home to possibly the most famous and beautiful building in the world: the Taj Mahal, built in the 17th century by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as a tomb and memorial for his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Along the river Yamuna is the impressive Red Fort, the capital of the Mughal Empire during the 16th and 17th centuries.

Suggested hotel: THE CORAL TREE HOMESTAY
This six-room home-stay is just a short walk away from the entrance to the Taj Mahal. The bright, cheerful rooms, verandahs and garden are all decorated with interesting pieces of art. The well-travelled owners are keen to interact with their guests, and are full of ideas to help you to get the most out of your time in Agra.

 
Day 13, Delhi

EARLY MORNING VISIT ON YOUR OWN TO THE TAJ MAHAL 
The best time of day to appreciate this stunning monument is as soon as the Taj Mahal opens, when it is at its quietest and most serene. You can enjoy the gardens, the mausoleum and the mosque, without needing a professional guide. Don't miss the marble inlay work and the various vantage points offered throughout the peaceful gardens. Once you have taken it all in, you can return to your hotel for a late breakfast.

AFTERNOON GUIDED TOUR OF AGRA'S OTHER MONUMENTS
Agra has much to offer besides the Taj Mahal, such as Agra Fort, a masterpiece of design and construction. You then visit Itimad-ud-Daulah's tomb - better known as the Baby Taj, which also features the same marble inlay work as the Taj Mahal. Finally you will visit Mehtab Bagh, a formally laid-out Mughal garden that offers stupendous views of the Taj Mahal, especially in the late afternoon.
	
In the evening you take a quick, comfortable train to Delhi.

Suggested hotel: THE METROPOLITAN HOTEL
Located close to Connaught Place, in the centre of New Delhi, this quiet, upmarket hotel has a fresh atmosphere with vivid, minimalist, stylish designs. The hotel has 3 restaurants including one serving authentic Japanese cuisine. There is a swimming pool, an excellent large spa, a fashion & lifestyle store and an art gallery.



Day 14, Delhi
Delhi is practically two cities: New Delhi, the capital of India, and medieval Old Delhi. The old city centres around the Red Fort, which contains opulent palaces and impressive public buildings. Nearby is the magnificent Jama Masjid, India’s largest mosque. In New Delhi you can find India Gate - a war memorial arch, the impressive Parliament Building and Rashtrapati Bhawan, the residence of the President. Towards the South are Qutab Minar and Humayun's Tomb, both World Heritage Sites.

	 
HALF DAY TOUR OF NEW DELHI
New Delhi has a number of attractions, like Humayun's Tomb, a sandstone mausoleum in the authentic Mughal style - the Taj Mahal, built much later, follows a similar style of architecture. Nearby you can see India Gate, the Parliament Buildings, the Lodhi Gardens, the Lotus Temple, the President's House, and the Sikh temple, Gurudwara Bangla Sahib. However, Delhi is huge and traffic is usually heavy, and half a day is not enough to see all of the attractions, so it is best to discuss with your guide which sights you might wish to visit.

The afternoon is free for you to relax or explore further on your own. If you'd like to go shopping, Connaught Place is a good place to explore.



Day 15, Delhi
Today, a departure transfer will take you to Delhi airport to catch your onward flight.

