---
title: Bird Watching in North India
subtitle: Delhi, Bharatpur, Chambal River Sanctuary, Agra, Bhopal, Satpura National Park
description: "India's varied terrain and large forest area make it a wonderful destination for birders, and in arid north and central India in particular, the smallest water body becomes a thriving avian metropolis. You start your tour with a multi-day stay at Bharatpur's Keoladeo Ghana bird sanctuary, whose wetlands are home to vast numbers of aquatic birds. You then take a trip on the Chambal river near Agra, a fabulous place to spot a variety of ducks, skimmers, herons and raptors, as well as endangered gharial crocodiles, muggers, turtles and the very rare Gangetic dolphins. A cultural interlude takes you to the fabulous Taj Mahal and the wonderful cave art outside Bhopal, and then you end up at the little-known Satpura national park, a beautiful forest that can be explored by jeep, boat, cycle or even on foot. With close to 400 species of birds and plenty of time in each spot, this is sure to be a momentous birding journey."
highlights: [
"Over two days of birding in the wetlands of Bharatpur's national park",
"Boat safaris on the amazing Chambal river",
"Jeep safaris in Satpura national park",
"Visiting the Taj Mahal in Agra",
"Being awed by prehistoric cave paintings in Bhimbetka"]
weight: 111
translationKey: bird-watching-in-north-india
days: 11
---

Day 1, Delhi
You start your tour on arrival in Delhi, where you will be met by our representative and transferred to your hotel.

Suggested hotel: THE METROPOLITAN HOTEL
Located close to Connaught Place, in the centre of New Delhi, this quiet, upmarket hotel has a fresh atmosphere with vivid, minimalist, stylish designs. The hotel has 3 restaurants including one serving authentic Japanese cuisine. There is a swimming pool, an excellent large spa, a fashion & lifestyle store and an art gallery.	



Day 2, Bharatpur
Your morning is at leisure to recover from your jet-lag. In the afternoon, you take an express train to 
Bharatpur, famous for its bird sanctuary, Keoladeo Ghana National Park. A network of paths, trails and lagoons, this is home to hundreds of species of birds. In winter, the resident population of birds is enhanced by many species of migratory birds. Bharatpur is a beautiful, peaceful place, enjoyable even for non-birders, as motorised vehicles are not allowed, and it can be explored on foot, bicycle or cycle rickshaw. 

Suggested hotel: LAXMI VILAS PALACE
This large heritage hotel is the premier place to stay in Bharatpur. Laxmi Vilas is the older, 18th-century wing of the palace, with comfortable, well-furnished rooms. Between the two wings is an enticing swimming pool. The entire property is surrounded by extensive lawns, giving it a rural and relaxing feel.



Day 3 & 4, Bharatpur

EARLY-MORNING AND LATE-AFTERNOON VISITS TO THE BIRD SANCTUARY
Keoladeo Ghana is one of the world’s finest bird sanctuaries. The best time to visit is in the early mornings and late afternoons, when the birds are most active. The best way to tour the park is by cycle rickshaw, as the drivers are all trained birding guides; you can also walk on the smaller trails. When there is enough water, you can also take a row-boat ride, to get close to the aquatic birds and their nesting colonies.



Day 5, Bah
Today, your first stop is the deserted Mughal city of Fatehpur Sikri, a complex of sandstone forts, palaces and mosques. Fatehpur Sikri was Emperor Akbar's capital for only 12 years before it was abandoned, apparently due to a lack of water. Today it is a ghost city, its architecture perfectly preserved. The white marble tomb of Sheikh Salim Chisti, Akbar's spiritual adviser, is a Muslim pilgrimage spot.  

BAH
You continue to the village of Bah, near the ravines of the Chambal River, once known for gangs of bandits, but now for wonderful wildlife. Along the river, you will find the endangered gharial crocodile and Ganges dolphins, the mugger crocodile, turtles, and a huge array of bird species. The Bateshwar temples, scene of a large biennial fair in October-November, are also worth a visit for their location on the riverbank.

AFTERNOON RIVER SAFARI
Set against a stunning backdrop, framed by the ravines and sandbanks, the calm waters of the Chambal River are best explored on boats. The gentle pace of the river safari is designed to provide spectacular sightings of the gharials, muggers and turtles basking in the sun, the many migratory and resident birds flying sorties, and the occasional glimpses of the Gangetic river dolphins breaking surface.

Suggested hotel: MELA KOTHI - THE CHAMBAL SAFARI LODGE
Mela Kothi was once a 'camp office' for the aristocratic family of nearby Jarar, used when they organised the Bateshwar fair. It is now a comfortable eco-lodge run by the family, who are also conservationists, and this is a fabulous place for birders in particular. The suites and cottages are spread out under ancient trees, separated by pleasant lawns and tree-canopied pathways. 

Farm-to-table meals are served every day. Once the farm for the local royal family, the retreat still has 
an extensive organic vegetable garden, and the meals are served in different alfresco spots around the property. 



Day 6, Bah
In the morning, you have another boat safari on the Chambal river to look for more birds and reptiles. Your afternoon is at leisure, and if you're keen, there's plenty of birding to be done around the property itself. 



Day 7, Agra
After breakfast, drive for under two hours to Agra, Agra, home to possibly the most famous and beautiful building in the world: the Taj Mahal, built in the 17th century by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan as a tomb and memorial for his wife Mumtaz Mahal. Along the river Yamuna is the impressive Red Fort, the capital of the Mughal Empire during the 16th and 17th centuries.

AFTERNOON GUIDED TOUR OF THE TAJ MAHAL AND RED FORT
The Taj Mahal is one of the most fascinating and beautiful monuments in the world. About 20,000 workers were employed in its construction, which took some 20 years. Agra's Red Fort, built in the form of a half moon on the Yamuna river, is a masterpiece of design. The fort's colossal walls are encircled by a moat and contain a maze of buildings, that form a small city within a city. You visit both on a half-day guided tour.

Suggested hotel: THE GRAND IMPERIAL
This 100-year-old building is testimony to India's long and varied history. The low, white colonial building dating back to the Raj era is peppered with Mughal paintings and memorabilia, and was host at one time to the Crown Princes of England as well as to Mohammad Ali Jinnah. The wide lawn in the front, and the cupola-marked pool at the back complete the feel of a luxury heritage hotel.   



Day 8, Bhopal
An early-morning train takes you to Bhopal, the under-rated capital of Madhya Pradesh, a surprising mix of medieval Hindu and Islamic architecture, and modern town-planning. It is a fast-growing city situated on gently-rolling hills and around two man-made lakes. Bhopal is perfect for visiting the stupas and abandoned monasteries of Sanchi, one of the most important Buddhist sites, and the cave shrines of Udaigiri and prehistoric cave paintings of Bhimbetka.  

Suggested hotel: JEHAN NUMA PALACE HOTEL
Built in 1890 and set in 5 sprawling acres, Jehan Numa Palace Hotel is the beautifully-preserved erstwhile home of the rulers of Bhopal. The abundance of space has also allowed for airy rooms with large beds and stylish colonial furniture in dark wood. Unlike most city hotels, Jehan Numa boasts of wide balconies, open lawns, fountains and many inviting spots to relax and unwind.



Day 9, Satpura
After breakfast, you first visit the amazing prehistoric cave dwellings at Bhimbetka. In the boulder-strewn landscape of the Vindhya mountain range is a collection of 600 rock shelters dating back to the Neolithic Age. Visitors are allowed to venture into 15 of these rock shelters to see cave paintings in bold red, white and yellow depicting animals, hunts and daily scenes in the lives of people during the Stone Age. The UNESCO has acknowledged this treasure by giving it World Cultural Heritage status.

SATPURA
You continue for about three hours to Satpura, a less-known but extremely scenic national park, and a great place to simply experience the forest. Apart from the beautiful core zone, known for its leopard sightings, Satpura's main feature is the Denwa river; boat safaris and canoeing are possible, as are night safaris, cycling and walks in the buffer zone, so the experience here goes beyond simply looking for tigers.

AFTERNOON JEEP SAFARI IN SATPURA NATIONAL PARK
There’s nothing quite like exploring Satpura Tiger Reserve in an open-top jeep. Accompanied by experienced naturalists and Satpura’s local guides, each ride takes you into heart of the wilderness. In an effort to reduce the pressure of tourism in the area, the authorities restrict the number of vehicles in the reserve, keeping you away from crowds and close to all the action.	

Suggested hotel: FORSYTH LODGE
A lovely naturalist-run lodge, the very eco-friendly Forsyth Safari Lodge consists of comfortable cottages with a generous bathrooms and a large sitout, each with its private view. Forsyth Lodge offers a pool and superb food, mostly locally sourced, as well as interesting activities like bicycle and walking tours in the buffer zone. A highlight is interact with the naturalists, over a glass of mahua by the cosy lounge-bar.



Day 10, Satpura
You have an early-morning jeep safari into Satpura national park, a different experience from the afternoon one. 


OTHER ACTIVITIES IN SATPURA NATIONAL PARK
Your stay in Satpura is on Jungle Plan basis, which includes all meals, one shared jeep safari per day, and also the choice of one other jungle activity per day - you can choose between a night safari, nature walk, canoe ride or a boat ride.
	


Day 11, Bhopal
Today, you drive back to Bhopal, to connect with your onward flight.
